VICTOR VASARELY 

Contemporary | Hungarian-French 

b: 1906 - d: 1997 

Victor Vasarely is an internationally known and praised artist; widely accepted as a "grandfather" and leader of the op art movement.

Vasarely studied traditional academic painting at the private Podolini-Volkmann Academy. In 1928/29, he enrolled at Sándor Bortnyik's private art school, 
Műhely (lit. "Workshop"), then widely recognized as Budapest's centre of Bauhaus studies. Due to limited funds, 
the Műhely could not offer all that the Bauhaus offered. Instead it concentrated on applied graphic art and typographical design.

BRIDGET RILEY 

Contemporary | British 

b: 1931 - current 

Bridget Riley is best known for her black and white works within the Op Art movement. However, she produces works in color as well. 
Her work is iconic of the Op Art movement, and she is considered one 
of Op Art's most important and influential artist.

In the late 60's, Riley and fellow artist and friend Peter Sedgley founded SPACE (Space Provision Artistic Cultural and Educational),
a large affordable and open studio space for artists to work.

C.E.B. REAS

Contemporary | American

b: 1972 - current

An artist whose conceptual, procedural and minimal art works explore ideas through software. Reas (with Ben Fry) is best known for
having created the Processing programming language.

Reas's software generated images are created by programmed instructions. 
The instructions are expressed in different media including natural language, machine code, and computer simulations,
resulting in both dynamic and static images. Each translation reveals a different perspective on the process and combines 
with the others to produce continually evolving visual traces. Since 2012, Reas has incorporated broadcast images into his
work, algorithmically distorting them to create abstractions that retain traces of their original, representational function.

JOSEF ALBERS 

​Modern | German-American 

b: 1888 - d: 1976 

Worked as an Art Teacher in Germany at several different schools for about half a century.
He served as faculty at the world renown Bauhaus, and then to the world renown Black Mountain College (and then later, Yale)
after immigrating to the US after the Nazi Party closed Bauhaus during World War II.

There are a fair number of his students who made names for themselves, including Op Artist Richard Anuszkiewucz. 
In addition to his contributions to Art Education, he is also renown for his own artist works- primarily his minimalist works of painting squares.
